So now we're gonna move on to
the binding section of the tutorial.
And as a general rule, data flow,
as we've seen, goes from parent
component to child component.
In other ways, it goes top-down.
Sometimes we need to break that rule.
Sometimes, we wanna get
information from an element or
component back up to its parent.
And this is very common when we're
dealing with form elements for example.
So, here's an input element,
Doesn't currently do anything.
But what we want to happen is for
the changes in that input element to be
reflected in the state of the component.
And there is one way that we
could do this using events.
We can do on input equals handle input and
so on, and
we could add an event handler and do all
of the stuff that you would normally do,
but it's a little bit inconvenient.
Instead, in Svelte,
we can just turn this prop,
this attribute,
into a binding with the bind directive.
And that looks like this
bind:value equals name.
And now,
whenever the value of the input changes,
the value of the variable that's
associated with it will also change.
And that's bidirectional.
So, if there are changes to that
value from outside the input,
they will also be reflected.
Everything is kept in sync.
And it's not just text inputs,
it's also numeric inputs,
which is not the case if you're
dealing with the DOM natively.
In normal DOM elements,
the value is always a string.
But generally, if you're dealing with a
numeric input, which is type equals number
or type equals range, then it's better
to get that value expressed as a number.
So again, we're going to turn these value
attributes into bindings bind colon value,
bind colon value.
Same again here, and last one.
And now, when we change these inputs,
all of the different places that
that's referenced also get changed.
So this input corresponds to its
counterpart on the left, and
down here,
the expression is also changing.
This UI is a little bit broken because
chrome just released a new version,
and it has a slight bug,
which will need to get fixed.
So, that's why there's a gap on the range
input there, it looks a little bit weird.
We also have check box inputs,
which represent a Boolean state.
If the input is checked,
the value is true.
If the input is unchecked,
the value is false.
Then, for
this we add bind colon checked, like so.
And now, if I toggle this check box, then
I'm able to subscribe to this newsletter.
Sometimes, you'll have multiple check
box inputs that all correspond to
the same value.
And for that we use a special
thing called bind colon group.
So, let's say we're building a website for
selling ice cream.
We've got let scoops up here.
And we can choose between these different
radio options, one scoop, two scoops or
three scoops, and
they're all mutually exclusive.
We're gonna bind to that, oops,
gonna bind to these groups like so.
And then,
as we interact with those radio buttons,
it's being reflected in the order
summary at the bottom of the page.
Now, here we've got some
slightly repetitive marker.
We've got this label block repeated three
times, once for each flavor on the menu,
cookies and cream,
mint choc chip and raspberry ripple.
And it would be easier if we
put that in an each block.
So, we're gonna do that real quick.
And then here, instead of repeating
that each time, each menu as flavor.
We're gonna get rid of the last two,
indent the first one.
Close the each block, and
it's repeating cookies and
cream because I haven't
changed this value to flavor.
Why isn't this working?
It is working, but this is also,
there we go, okay, panicked a bit there.
So now, if I just made that bigger then.
We can see that it's not, I mean, it's
bigger, we can see that it's not actually
changing the order because this isn't yet
binding, it's just a regular variable.
So, we're gonna turn this
group into bind:group.
And then, now this flavors array up here,
which represents the selection
that the user has made.
Gets changed, and we need to, if we're
gonna be greedy and have three scoops,
we need to say Three scoops.
And our order summary says we've ordered
three scoops of cookies and cream,
mint choc chip and raspberry riffle.
And we can now add new
flavors of ice cream.
And it will get added to
the menu as we'd expect.
Similar to input,
our text area elements, and
these are useful when you need
to enter a large amount of text.
And we're going to use a text
area to build a mark down here.
It's exactly the same as an input,
value becomes bind:value.
And so now, I can add a list
of things, right?
That's a mark down editor and
12 lines of code.
Now, in the same way that we saw earlier
with the image source equals source,
we can turn that into just putting
the source inside the curly braces.
We can do a similar thing with bind value.
We can get rid of the equals
value because it's implicit when
you just have bind value by itself.
It still works.
We can also use bind value with select
elements which are drop down menus.
On line 24, where we have a select element
inside our form, and you can see it here.
We're going to change this value
equals selected to a binding,
same drill as before.
And now, when we select a different
item inside the drop down.
We can see at the bottom that we've
selected question, one, two or three.
That's true even though
the values of these options
are not strings, which is what you would
need to do if you were using regular HTML.
We can actually pass
objects to the options, and
they will be preserved faithfully.
So here, these are the options.
They've got an ID property and
a text property.
The text is what is visible inside the
option because we have questions.txt, but
further down, when we're shown
which question was selected,
we're showing selected.id.
If we revisit our ice cream
example from earlier,
we can replace the check box
list with a select multiple.
So, we've got our each block
where we're showing three labels,
each containing a check box input.
And we're going to replace that
whole block with a select element.
We're going to give it
the multiple attribute,
which means that it will
be visible at once.
Bind value equals flavors,
which is the variable
containing our selection.
And then we're just going
to iterate over the menu.
And print the text.
So now, we can order our ice cream.
Another fun thing we combine to
is a content editable content.
So, when you have a content editable,
then it means that user can
actually change what's in the page.
So, I can add some text like hello,
everyone,
this is some text, and
copy that to the clipboard.
And then,
now if I add to that elements innerHTML.
And paste it in, then you'll see that
it's capturing the HTML contents and
letting us use that in another context.
There aren't many situations where that's
useful, but it does sometimes come up.
And as we've seen, we can bind to
prooerties inside in each block,
it's not just top level elements.
So, here we have a to do list with
a check box input and a text input.
And we want to be able to see
how many of these are remaining.
Currently, all three are remaining because
these check boxes aren't wired up.
So, find the mark up
where this is happening.
And we're gonna turn this
check value into a binding.
And we're gonna change
that to binding as well.
And now, when you click that,
it's actually changing the value of
to do's itself, and because of that.
This remaining value,
which is being derived from the value
of to dos automatically updates.
And so this text.
Gets printed down here, and it will
automatically update when we interact with
the items inside the each block.